# BlackjackProject

## Description
Welcome to the Blackjack table! In this app, we have a functional terminal blackjack game. The game starts by having the dealer shuffle the deck of cards and deals the cards out according to blackjack rules. The dealers second card is facedown and unknown to the player. After the cards are dealt, if either player has a blackjack, the game ends. Otherwise, the players turn starts where they can hit(add a card to their hand) or stay(no cards added and the game continues). If the player hits and goes over 21 the game notifies them of this and that the dealer has won. If the player decides to stay, the dealers turn begins. The dealer first flips over their second card. The total points are checked against win and loss conditions to determine if they have won(blackjack) or loss(gone bust), otherwise, the game continues.  The dealer follows the rules of blackjack where if the dealers hand is less than 17, then they must hit; if the hand is over 17, then the dealer stays. If neither the dealer nor the player has won or loss by this time, the game compares the two scores and determines who is highest(and still below 21). Based on the numbers, whoever has the winning hand is displayed to the screen.  Future directions of this project include adding in the additional rules of blackjack such as a hard/soft ace, allowing multiple players to join the table, and additional functionalities such as asking the user if they would like to play again at the end of the game. 

## What I learned
From the difficulty of the last project to this project, I have learned a lot about Java, OOP, and general coding skills. By far, this project has had the most moving parts to it which made it an amazing opportunity to practice my OOP and critical thinking skills. My knowledge on each pillar of OOP has been solidified/increased further. With abstraction, each aspect of the game was broken down into workable pieces of code that allowed for a more complex task to be accomplished. Challenges that were presented with abstraction were creating unused methods/repeated methods in multiple classes. This led to minor un-readability and challenges with orchestrating the project. After seeing this, my future program designing will be more efficient and have less of this making the program more readable overall. Another aspect of OOP that I practiced in this project was inheritance and polymophrism. Having multiple classes extend to other classes while being able to polymorph these classes allowed the program to have structure but also functionality as well. For example, the user and dealer and both of the class player, however dealer has more functionality than the user does. With both dealer and user being of the player class, I was able to use methods they both shared. This means less repetition is each class. Lastly, encapsulation was practiced by keeping most class fields private. There is room for improvement on encapsulation as well as handling of data between different classes and methods. Lastly, the new concept of enumeration was practiced in this project. The cards were created with enumerated class that contained the suits and ranks of the cards. Since the concept is still fairly new, I hope to practice this more in the future!

## Technologies Used
Java, Eclipse, Atom, Google
